Best Practises:
INTRO: 
Amazon RDS(managed database service):pay/hr
 Amazon RDS makes it easy to set up,
operate, and scale a relational database in the cloud by automating installation,
disk provisioning and management, patching, minor version upgrades, failed
instance replacement, as well as backup and recovery tasks.

=> charged per hour. can save on non business hours.
=> you can resize the instance based on your needs.
=> You can configure CPU cores and threds per core.
=> you can also Bring Your Own License.
=> configurable network security.

Running the database on Amazon EC2 is very similar to running the database on your own server.
  set up, configure, manage, and tune all the components,including Amazon EC2 instances, storage volumes, scalability, networking, and
security, based on AWS architecture best practices.

why you choose EC2:
You need full control over the database, including SYS/SYSTEM user access, or you need access at the operating system level.
Your database size exceeds the 80% of current maximum database size in Amazon RDS.(which is not the case as per RFI)
Oracle features or options not supported in RDS (should suffice).
Your database IOPS needs are higher than the current IOPS limit.(not the case).
You need a specific Oracle Database version that is not supported by Amazon RDS(not the case).
If want to use your data replication tool than aws supported.
RAC is not currently supported on AWS RDS.VMware Cloud on AWS might be a better choice


https://d1.awsstatic.com/whitepapers/best-practices-for-running-oracle-database-on-aws.pdf


Srategies:
— The size of the database
— Network connectivity between the source server and AWS
— The version and edition of your Oracle Database software
— The database options, tools, and utilities that are available
— The amount of time that is available for migration
— Whether the migration and switchover to AWS will be done in one step or a Two-Step.

Tools helpfull to migrate data based on the size of the data and environemnt.

https://d1.awsstatic.com/whitepapers/strategies-for-migrating-oracle-database-to-aws.pdf
